# MP3---SORTING-ALGORITHMS...INSERTION.RECURSIVE.ITERATIVE.MERGE-SORT

[PLEASE SEE mp3.pdf FILE FOR FULL INSTRUCTIONS AND EXPLANATION!](mp3.pdf)

The goal of this machine problem is to extend the two-way linked list ADT from machine problem 2 to include four algorithms for sorting a list. We also extend machine problem 2 to include four new commands: APPENDL ip-addr, SORTL x, PRINTL, and SCANL threshold. These new commands operate on a new third list. APPENDL simply adds the new packet to the end of the list (and does not remove any duplicate packets). SORTL x sorts the new list in ascending order based on dest_ip_addr, where x is one of the four sorting algorithms defined below. PRINTL prints the list in the same format as for PRINT. SCANL threshold is identical to SCAN but operates on the new list if it has been sorted. If the new list has not been sorted since the last APPENDL, then the SCANL function should print a message stating that the operation cannot be performed until the list has been sorted. Also, update STATS to report the sizes of all three lists.


Sorting the two-way linked list ADT

Create the prototype definition void list_sort(pList list_ptr, int sort_type) in your list.h file. For this function, sort_type can take one of the following values:

1. Insertion sort. We can use the other functions in list.c to implement a very simple sort function. To sort the list, use list_remove to take the first item from the list and list_insert_sorted to put the item into a second list that is sorted. When all the elements have been inserted into the sorted list, adjust the pointers in list_ptr to point to the newly sorted list. Note this is a simple variation of the priority queue sort Standish describes in Section 4.3 of the book.
2. Recursive Selection Sort. Implement the recursive version of the selection sort as defined by program 5.19 on page 152 in the book by Standish. Except, change the code so the sorted list is increasing. Update the algorithm so that it properly handles our two-way linked list (as opposed to the implementation for an array in program 5.19). The calculations of the sort algorithm should not change; just change the algorithm to work with pointers instead of indexes into an array. You will also need to implement Standish’s FindMax algorithm defined in program 5.20 on page 152. The source code from Standish is available on Blackboard.
3. Iterative Selection Sort. Implement the iterative version of the selection sort as defined by program 5.35 on page 171 in the book by Standish. Read Section 5.4 for an explanation of how the recursive version of the program is transformed into the iterative version.
4. Merge Sort. Implement the recursive version of merge sort as defined by the program 6.19 on page 237 of the book by Standish. Note you will need to implement two support functions. The first is a function to partition a list into two half-lists (this is easy to implement as you just step through the linked list until half the list size and then break the list into two lists). This second function merges two lists that are sorted into a single list. Read the paragraph on page 237 that discusses how to merge two lists, and note that it is a simple process of using list_remove at the head of either the left or right list and list_insert at the tail of the merged list.
